# News Bias Detection

## Project Overview
The **News Bias Detection** project aims to identify bias in news articles by analyzing the text content. The application utilizes natural language processing (NLP) techniques, topic modeling, and statistical analysis to detect bias patterns and provide an unbiased assessment of the article. This project focuses on building the bias detection model from scratch without relying on pre-trained models.

## Features
- Analyze news articles to detect potential bias.
- Implemented from scratch using foundational NLP techniques.
- Utilizes **TF-IDF**, **Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA)**, and **custom heuristics** for topic modeling and bias identification.
- Designed to be modular and extensible for future enhancements.

## Technologies Used
- **Programming Language**: Python
- **Libraries**:
  - Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)
  - Scikit-learn
  - Pandas, NumPy
- **Dataset**: The project uses the **[Shainar/BEAD dataset](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1l2ZWdzw5sj_DO15N5oZX7HQKBX40qMMr?usp=drive_link)** for training and evaluation. 


## Folder Structure

- **`data/`**: Contains the dataset used in the project.
  
- **`models/`**: Stores trained machine learning models for bias detection.

- **`results/`**: Contains outputs generated by the model.

- **`src/`**: Contains the main source code for the project.

- **`notebooks/`**: Jupyter notebooks for exploratory analysis and prototyping.

- **`requirements.txt`**: Lists all Python libraries and dependencies required for the project.

- **`README.md`**: Documentation for the project.

## Commands to Run the Project

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/shivang2402/News-Bias-Detection.git
   
   cd News-Bias-Detection


2. **Create Virtual Environment**
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv


3. **Install Dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt


4. **Run the required files**
   ```bash
   python src/datapreprocess.py

**Results**: Results for this project are uploaded here **[results](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1p83Eldkw82I57rtuK0Voa8XPrOOgX6xf)** for training and evaluation.







